[sheriff] We do not know why we are here.
We do not know who built the Silo.
We do not know why everything
outside the Silo is as it is.
Good morning. Sheriff.
Hey. Sam. You awake yet?
[Sam] I'm about halfway there.
[sheriff] We do not know
when it will be safe to go outside.
We only know that day...
is not this day.
Hey.
You're in early.
[deputy] Yeah. I couldn't sleep.
Got the damn leg cramps.
When you get your coffee.
meet me in holding 3.
Three?
You want some coffee?
[deputy] What are you doing?
[sheriff] I wanna see her.
[deputy] No. Sheriff.
I should've done it three years ago.
But I couldn't listen.
[deputy] Hey. Stop.
[stammers] Come on out of there.
Let's talk about this.
I made up my mind.
or I wouldn't be in here.
I'm sorry. Sam.
You're gonna say this to me
after all we've been through?
Want me to wait till Sandy gets in?
I don't want you to say it.
Please. Sheriff. Don't say it.
- Deputy Marnes...
- Please. Sheriff.
I wanna go out.
[sighs. sniffs]
[breathes shakily]
[exhales shakily]
While you get things rolling.
I think I'm gonna lie down.
[sheriff's wife] Are you getting coffee?
[sheriff] I am. I am!
Okay. I'll take milk. please.
Actually. no milk. I don't... I don't...
I don't need any milk. No.
- Come on. It's almost 8:00.
- Okay.
- [sheriff's wife] Please.
- [sheriff] Okay. coming.
[sighs] Thanks. [chuckles]
[sighs] I don't know why we're doing this.
We're not gonna get it.
We had two tries.
[computer chimes]
[chuckling]
I can't believe it. [sighs]
- [chuckles]
- Third time's a charm.
You're just excited to have sex every day.
Hey. you could be pregnant
a month from now.
- Please let it be more than that.
- [chuckles]
[sheriff's wife sighs]
You know I love you no matter what.
Shut up. We're doing this. Let's go.
Allie.
his office doesn't open for an hour.
Yeah. Well. we can get some breakfast.
We can talk about baby names.
Which will be me just humoring you.
because obviously.
if I'm giving birth
to this little critter.
I'm naming it whatever the hell I want.
[chuckles] Okay.
[Allison chuckles]
- Good luck.
- Oh. thanks. [chuckles]
- Congratulations.
- [sheriff] Yeah. Thank you.
Thanks. [chuckles]
- Hi.
- [people murmuring]
Oh. hi. Congrats.
Hi.
I really hate this part.
People are just happy for us.
Oh. I just wish everyone didn't know.
[chuckles]
Oh. shit.
Sheriff. Mrs. Becker.
I... [stammers. sighs]
I don't mean to intrude. [chuckles]
So don't.
There's your famous
tell-it-like-it-is manner.
Why everyone likes you.
If everyone likes me.
I'm not doing my job.
Mrs. Becker. your husband might not be
interested in what I have to say...
What I'd be really interested in
- is you leaving us alone. Gloria.
- Holston.
But whatever our sheriff
may have told you.
I provide fertility counseling...
Oh. yeah? Like what?
[chuckles] Your husband's waiting for me
to say something
I'm not legally allowed to say.
- Such as?
- Clever.
[Gloria] I have no desire to be sent out.
Thank you. Sheriff.
Mrs. Becker. if you have an open mind.
come see me.
I wish you both the very best.
What does she do exactly?
She goes right to the edge
of promising people a baby
if they do what she says. which is fraud.
And it's cruel.
[doctor] I'll let that go numb.
Now. after I remove the birth control.
it'll take two to three weeks
for your hormones to reset.
Now. that said. some couples
do become pregnant
within days of getting clearance.
But then. you know all this.
Is this your. uh... your second time?
- Third.
- And last.
I'm almost thirty-eigh... eight.
Can you feel this?
Just pressure.
[doctor] Well. even though you're numb.
it's still gonna feel weird.
We make sure
the capsule's implanted quite deep
so it never gives you any trouble.
[grunts]
- But not for long. as I am done.
- [grunts]
And there it is.
- [Allison sighs]
- You are no longer under birth control.
[doctor] You are now free to make a baby.
[Allison chuckles]
[chattering. singing]
Thank you. Mrs. Flores.
I swear if one more person
congratulates us... [breathes heavily]
Impregnate me. Now.
- Yes. ma'am. [grunts. chuckles]
- [chuckles]
- Wait. wait. wait. wait. wait. Wait. wait.
- Mmm. What?
[sighs] Remember last time?
At some point.
this is gonna start feeling like work.
- Best work ever.
- [chuckles]
[IT worker] We tried. like. four times
before we finally got clearance.
so now's your time.
[Allison] Yeah. let's hope.
[IT worker chuckles] My cousin Charlene.
she convinced her husband
he had to dye his unit blue.
Did it work?
- They got pregnant.
- [chuckles]
But I'm sure his blue dick
had nothing to do with it.
She was just fucking with him.
Gives you a clue to that marriage.
- Hello. Bernard.
- Morning. Bernard.
Karen. Allison.
[clicks tongue]
I see you posted an article
on our BBS about recovering deleted files.
- I did.
- You do know you need to get my approval
for any IT-related content
before it goes wide.
Well. I figured we could cut down
on service calls
if people could handle
some things on their own.
[chuckles] Hmm. I took it down. Your post.
I have no doubt your intentions were good.
but our reporting structure
is there for a reason.
- Got it.
- Hmm.
[whispers] Fucking asshole.
Did you know you were breaking the rules?
No. Maybe. Kind of.
There's too many rules.
Well. you wanted to work in IT.
It's not just IT. It's everywhere.
We blame the rebels
for erasing our history. right?
Yes.
So why can't we ask questions
about that stuff?
And if losing our history is so bad.
why can some goons from Judicial
send you down to the mines
if you happen to have a relic
from the before times?
Allison.
Really?
You're gonna use
your sheriff voice with me?
Honey.
the Pact is the only history we have.
What if a bunch of rule-breakers
decide they wanna see for themselves
what it's like aboveground?
They somehow manage to open that door.
we are done.
Part of my job
is making sure that doesn't happen.
[Allison sighs. sniffs]
[breathes deeply]
I got my period.
I know. I know. We still have time.
[Marnes] What are you so afraid of?
I'm afraid some drunken. pyromaniac
adolescent with a cherry bomb
is gonna start a fire
that sets off a stampede.
Are you done? Is it safe for me to speak?
Since you've been wearing the sash
and we've been wearing a badge.
Freedom Day has gone off without a hitch.
And that's a long damn time.
All deputies will be on patrol.
and we'll have fire teams
on every tenth level.
[silo leader] It's getting harder to see
with every passing month.
A long time between cleanings
means things are going well.
No one wants a cleaning.
but people need to see
what it's like out there.
- Mrs. Becker.
- Oh.
- Hi.
- I was looking for you.
- Are you pregnant?
- Um. not yet.
But I'm afraid I won't be needing
your assistance.
- Take care.
- Oh. no. no. no.
That's not why I was looking for you.
I'd like to ask you a question in private.
Oh. I hate that term. "Freedom Day."
So simplistic.
"Put Down the Rebellion Day"
would be more accurate.
Ma'am. you said you wanted
to ask me a question.
Why'd you do that?
Because I don't want them to hear.
Who?
Well. who's got listeners?
Judicial?
Have you ever wondered
what was on the servers they erased?
In the books they burned?
If it was even the rebels that did it?
- I should get to work.
- Oh. please.
I didn't ask you here on a whim.
I've heard you're someone who also
wonders.
Who told you that?
Why do we live underground?
What actually happened out there?
- I'm going now.
- One last thing.
Do you really think you're the kind of
person they want having children?
[Allison] Three times with no success?
She just said it...
It started to feel a little intentional.
Okay. Now she has officially descended
from eccentric oddball
to completely fucking crazy.
I should send the psych team
- to pay Gloria a visit.
- Don't. She just...
Just what? Said something that upsets you?
She and her husband couldn't have a baby.
She wants you to find out why.
You had your birth control removed. Allie.
We have the same shot at making a baby
as anyone who has clearance.
- [breathes deeply]
- Okay?
Okay.
You're not gonna like this.
Our buddy George submitted another ticket.
Guess whose turn it is to take it.
[sighs deeply]
He's a programmer in the Mids
with a repair stall in the market.
- Why do you have to go?
- Everybody's taking off for Freedom Day.
And because you're working.
I figured I would just be on call.
But he wants me to be there
first thing in the morning.
which means I have to go down tonight
and get a room in the hostel.
Also means that we will be missing
this evening's entertainment.
[Holston chuckles]
- [whispers] Honey.
- I know. I know. I'll be quiet.
- Not here.
- Yeah. here.
- Honey. Marnes is...
- Let's be quick.
[Holston] Okay.
[Holston moaning]
- [Allison] It's okay. It's okay.
- [objects crashing]
[Allison moaning. breathing heavily]
[thumping]
[chuckles. snorts]
[shushes]
- [Allison moaning]
- [laughs]
- [Allison. Holston groaning]
- [clattering]
[both breathing heavily]
- Holy shit.
- [chuckles]
[chuckling] If I don't get pregnant
from that. I never will.
[both chuckling]
[actor 1] We'll beat you to the top
and open the door to the outside.
letting all the poison into the Silo!
- [laughs]
- [children booing]
[actor 2] Not so fast. rebel!
In the name of the Founders! [yells]
- [grunting. yelling]
- [grunting]
- [actor 3 yells]
- [children cheering]
- [band playing music]
- [chattering]
[yells]
- [music continues. louder]
- [chattering continues]
[speaks indistinctly]
[George] Allison Becker?
I am. You must be...
I've been looking forward
to meeting you for a long time.
Sorry about getting you down here
on Freedom Day.
I'm on call. My husband's working. so...
That's what I figured.
him being the sheriff.
Why I thought I might get you.
I don't understand. How can I help you?
[stammers] Yeah. I... I read your post
on how to retrieve deleted files.
I had a feeling it wouldn't stay up long.
so I printed it.
- That must have cost you a fortune.
- Yeah. worth every credit.
It got me a long way.
But I needed to see you in person.
so I put in a repair request
hoping I'd get you.
Of course. they sent everyone but you.
So then I thought with the holiday...
Why didn't you just ask for me?
I didn't wanna arouse suspicion.
From who?
Who wrote the law on relics?
You're worried about Judicial?
[scoffs] Isn't everybody?
Is this about a relic?
That's just it. I don't know.
A guy came in with this
about a year ago.
Said he found it
under the carpet in a closet.
I fired it up. and it...
It looked like it was empty.
Then I tried what you posted...
and I was able to check the memory.
It... It says most of the drive is in use.
but I can't find any files.
There's something on there.
I just don't know how to get to it.
Could just be old family recipes.
[scoffs]
Then they're very old family recipes.
I checked the log in IT.
There's no record of this serial number.
Course.
the log starts after the rebellion.
You think this drive
is over 140 years old?
That's impossible. All the drives
were destroyed in the rebellion.
Could just be an entry error.
Or not.
It might be as simple as just figuring out
the name on the directory.
- May I?
- Mmm.
Is there anything I can...
Not talking would be great.
[crowd cheering]
- Happy Freedom Day.
- Happy Freedom Day. Mayor.
Very nice to see you all.
[Allison sighs]
[sniffs. sighs]
[sighs]
Any idea what the 18 means?
Uh-uh.
- Do you have a magnifying glass?
- Um. yep.
[crowd cheering]
[silo leader] Six minutes
and six seconds
past six o'clock
on this day
140 years ago.
That is the moment
we regained our freedom.
[crowd cheering]
We are gathered on the anniversary
to remember the terror of the rebellion.
If they had succeeded.
if they had opened the door
to the outside world.
none of us would be here right now.
They didn't succeed. thank the Founders.
But they did manage
to take away our history.
Got anything more powerful?
That's as powerful as they get.
It's letters. but...
I think it says "library."
[silo leader]
They destroyed our computer drives.
They shredded our files
and burned all the books in our libraries.
Um... [chuckles]
Um...
But they were stopped.
Our heroic forebears won the day.
Look at this. [chuckles]
I won't. [breathing heavily]
You shouldn't either.
You should bury this.
Bury it? Are you kidding?
This is the great...
This is a relic.
It's against the law to even have it.
But this could be the key
to everything we don't know.
- We have to look...
- They can send you out to clean for this.
Are... Are you gonna tell your husband?
Just get rid of it. [breathes shakily]
[door opens. closes]
[breathes heavily]
[silo leader] And their great victory
should be celebrated with cheers.
[crowd cheering]
It should be celebrated with horns.
[crowd blowing horns]
Where the hell does that go?
[horn blowing continues]
And it should be remembered in silence.
[crowd] ♪ Hear the sound that rings ♪
♪ It's calling us ♪
♪ To our duty ♪
♪ Hear the voices sing ♪
♪ So loud and proud ♪
♪ Praise freedom's beauty ♪
♪ See the rising lights ♪
[singing indistinctly]
♪ ...Long night. rise up... ♪
Uh. sorry. Sorry. I'm just...
I'm just really exhausted from that climb.
I think... [sighs] ...if I didn't sit
on my ass all day. I'd be more fit.
Mmm.
- [Allison sighs]
- [Holston] It's okay.
Just saying I'm tired.
[sighs] Yeah.
[sighs]
Are you 70-levels tired.
or are you...
tired?
We still have some time.
This can't be fun for you anymore.
It's not about fun.
I wanna have a baby.
[sighs] So did I.
[Holston sighs]
[Karen] How'd it go with George?
Couldn't help him. [sighs]
I think he's just lonely.
Wants to converse
with other computer geeks.
Hmm.
[sighs]
You know. I don't know
if it's... [sighs] ...something I ate
or if I'm catching a cold.
but I don't feel great.
Then go home. I'll tell Bernard.
Thanks.
Feel better soon.
Oh. Come in. come in.
[sighs] I hoped you'd be back.
Why wouldn't they want us
to have children?
[inhales sharply]
[faucet runs]
- [Holston] Bernard behaving himself?
- I didn't see him.
I think I'm gonna take tomorrow off.
Go to the market.
What do you need? I... I can send a porter.
I just wanna look.
Get some exercise.
Take my mind off...
Sure. Yeah.
Sounds like a good idea.
[door opens. closes]
I wanna see everything.
- [groans] My brain is fried.
- [George chuckles]
[Allison sighs]
Needless to say. we shouldn't tell
anybody about this.
Uh... Needless to say.
- [chuckles]
- [chuckles] When can you come back?
[sighs] I don't know.
What's this?
[George] I don't know.
Last one?
[Allison breathing shakily]
[sighs]
[birds squawking]
- [grunts]
- Hey! Keep right.
[door closes]
It's late.
[inhales sharply] I lost track. [chuckles]
You go on a shopping spree?
Spend all our credits?
[sighs] Oh. yeah. I wish. Next time.
[faucet running]
[faucet turns off]
I got a message from the doctor.
The only time he can see us is at 11:00.
But. uh. you never know.
We technically still have a few hours.
That's fine. [sighs]
I'm gonna sleep in a little.
so I'll meet you there.
Hey. Are you okay?
No.
But I will be.
[Allison sighs]
[clock ticking]
- Hey. Karen.
- Hey.
Where's Allison?
Oh. She sent a note by porter
saying she wasn't feeling well.
- Thanks.
- Sure.
We need to talk.
- What's going on?
- Sit.
- Are you okay?
- Sit. please.
I was gonna talk to you last night.
but I wasn't sure you were gonna
be able to hear what I had to say.
You don't always listen. honey.
What are you talking about?
- I always listen...
- Talking is not listening.
Because you're the lawman.
I figured I needed to give you some proof.
- Proof of what?
- [Allison sighs]
I can't tell you how I know this. but...
they were never gonna
let us have children.
- What?
- We...
I'm not the type of person
they want having kids.
[chuckles] Who... Who's "they"?
The enforcers of the Pact.
They want docile. obedient people.
[stammers] I saw Dr. Leonard
take out your birth control.
- No. you didn't.
- I was there.
He was behind a curtain.
- You didn't see what he was doing.
- Allison...
I can assure you.
he didn't take out my birth control.
How do you know that?
Because I just did.
What did you do?
Keep pressure on it and don't move.
[door closes]
[exhales deeply]
- [panting. groans]
- Hey.
[panting]
- Whoa!
[grunts. panting]
- [people gasp]
- [panting]
- You gotta come.
- [Dr. Leonard] What?
[panting] It's Allison.
- [Marnes] Oh. good. Sheriff!
- I can't. Allison's hurt.
Allison's in the cafeteria.
None of this is real. Do you see?
They wanna keep you in here.
so they're lying to you.
It's green out there. There's green trees.
There's blue skies.
[breathing heavily]
There's things flying in the air.
Is no one listening to me?
They're keeping us here.
- This display is a lie.
- [Holston] Allison.
- Allison. Allison. Come with me.
- They... They want us to... No. no. no. no.
- Listen to me.
- [stammers] We tried...
- We tried three times. I know it's hard.
- I'm not crazy!
- Why are you treating me like I'm crazy?
- Of course not. Of course not.
Allison. I've known several patients
who have had breakdowns.
I'm not having a breakdown.
[laughing. stammering]
[Holston] You are bleeding. honey.
- And you need to come...
- No! [breathes shakily]
No. No. Just... I've been thinking
about this a lot. okay? [sniffles]
Please. [sighs] Just know
there's no other way.
- [Holston breathes shakily]
- I'm sorry. honey.
It's... It's okay.
- It's okay.
- [breathing heavily] I want to go out!
[people gasping]
[crying]
I want to go out. [sighs]
Oh. God.
[crying. breathing heavily]
[handcuffs clicking]
- [Allison crying]
- [Holston exhales heavily]
- [silo leader] There has to be something.
- [Marnes] There isn't.
We could say she was distressed
or that she misspoke or people misheard.
[groans] There were people there.
They heard what they heard.
- Maybe we could...
- We can bribe them. kill them.
No. goddamn it.
The Pact says you can request a hearing
if you feel you have been misheard.
Allison does not feel she was misheard.
Don't you want to at least
look at the possibility?
Of course I do!
Don't you think I've gone over it again
and again? There is nothing I can do.
[inhales deeply] If you boil the Pact
down to one rule.
it's do not say you want to go outside
or you will fucking go outside.
[silo leader] Did anyone else play a part
in this? Steer her in this direction?
She talked to a fertility counselor on 17.
Gloria Hildebrandt.
And what did she say?
She admits she put the bug
in Allison's ear
about us not being the kind
they want having kids.
[silo leader] Who's "they?"
[Holston] She doesn't know.
She's just mad
she and her husband couldn't have kids.
Do your talking at the station.
[Marnes] We also hauled up the guy
from the marketplace. George Wilkins.
He runs a computer repair stall.
Allison gave him tech support
on the holiday.
She went shopping yesterday.
I thought maybe she'd gone to see him.
[Marnes] But Wilkins said
that Allison never came back.
A Judicial team searched his stall.
but they didn't find anything.
[silo leader] Then why?
Allison feels things strongly.
But not being able to have a baby...
I think it was just too much.
[inhales deeply]
Holston. you don't have
to be here for the rest.
I'm the sheriff.
Sure you don't want to step aside?
- I took an oath when I took the job.
- I know. but everyone will...
What's the value of swearing an oath
if you only stick to it when it's easy?
[sighs]
[silo leader]
Two-day holiday. except for essential.
Open rooms Up Top for visitors.
We expect this'll attract a larger crowd
than usual. as it's been a while.
[voice fading] We'll hold a lottery
for attendance in the cafeteria.
[Allison] I'm so sorry.
Me too.
[Allison] I didn't go all crazy.
You cut something out of your body
with a knife.
Yeah. and it hurt like hell. [chuckles]
I took the capsule back to Dr. Leonard.
[Allison] Oh. yeah? What'd he say?
It was in there to hold a spot.
prevent infection.
Something like that. right?
Doesn't matter.
[sighs] I have to tell you something.
[sniffs]
But I need you to sit close.
- I don't want anybody to hear.
- We're alone.
[sighs] Please.
Please.
[sniffles]
[inhales sharply]
First of all. I love you.
- That is the most important thing.
- Is it?
I know you're angry. I would be too.
If I could wind back the clock
and not know what I know. I would.
Ugh. In a heartbeat.
But what I found out.
what they told us isn't true.
Why we're here.
what happened 140 years ago.
why and who gets to have children.
And that's not even the big thing...
So?
- So?
- You find out something like that.
you bring it to me. to Mayor Jahns.
to Judicial.
You let everyone in the Silo know.
What you don't do is say the words
that get you sent out there to die.
But that's the big thing I found out.
I won't die out there.
Listen. they have the ability
to change what we see on the screens.
In the cafeteria.
throughout the Silo. everywhere.
- What are you talking about?
- They take an image.
and... and they alter it somehow.
So. what we see is not what's out there.
It's what they want us
to think is out there.
- What's that? Right there.
- [sighs] Holston.
- And that.
- [Allison sniffles]
[Holston]
The last three people who cleaned.
Or maybe that's not what it is.
- What if it's just rocks and bushes?
- I know what I'm seeing.
Not if it's just
what the computer wants you to see.
- Why would they do that?
- To keep us in here.
Okay. okay.
If it's so wonderful outside.
why would they not want us to go out?
I don't know.
- I don't know.
- O... Okay.
But I'm gonna find out. I'm sorry. [sighs]
- You keep saying that. I... I...
- Okay.
Just one more thing
I want you to think about.
and then you should get some sleep.
- [sighs. cries] Not going anywhere.
- [sighs]
[breathes heavily]
Why do people clean? [sniffles]
To get the dust and grime
off the sensors
- so we can see.
- No. No.
Why do they go through with it?
Most people swear they're not gonna do it.
When you arrested Brent. he said you'd
have to put a bullet through his head
and throw him down the stairs
'cause he wasn't gonna clean.
- And then what did he do?
- He cleaned.
I think people clean
because they hope somehow
that they can show people the truth
that that is a lie.
When I get out there. if that's what
it's really like. I won't clean.
I'll wave goodbye. because I would have
made the biggest mistake of my life.
- But if I'm right...
- [breathes deeply]
and it's green and lush and beautiful.
I'll pull out my wool
and I'll start to clean. And you'll know.
And then I'll walk over the hill.
and I'll find out what's going on.
And then I'll come back for you.
Okay?
[Jahns] "Allison Becker."
You have been charged with
and convicted of violating
the cardinal law of our society.
Any spoken request
to leave the Silo is granted.
but it is irrevocable.
Once uttered. it is determinative.
You have been asked to clean
and have been provided
with materials to do so.
But you cannot be forced into cleaning.
"Once outside the air lock.
you are outside the law."
[sniffs]
"We do not know why we are here."
We do not know who built the Silo.
We do not know why everything
outside the Silo is as it is.
We do not know...
when it will be safe to go outside.
We only know that day is not today.
[cries] Allison Becker.
On behalf of the people of the Silo.
I hope that you will clean
so that we will better see
the world outside our sanctuary as it is
and thereby be reminded
"that here is safe and there is not."
[sighs]
[Holston] Have you any last words?
[breathes deeply] I love you.
I love you.
[door thuds]
[air hissing]
[crowd murmuring]
[crowd cheering]
[crowd whistling. cheering]
[crowd murmuring]
[crowd cheering]
Yes!
[Marnes] Something you should see.
George Wilkins. he's the one Allison
went to help in the marketplace.
- We hauled him up and...
- Yeah. I know who he is.
He got a transfer to Mechanical last year.
Okay.
He's dead. Went over the rail
somewhere around level 120.
Accident? Suicide?
I don't know.
- What does Hank say?
- Eh. He didn't say much.
No one saw him go over.
Get to the part you're not telling me.
[sighs]
There's an engineer down there
that says it's murder.
[Marnes] Where's the engineer?
Uh. she couldn't make it.
It took us a day to walk down here.
She could have cleared her schedule.
Something came up.
Okay.
Meeting with us isn't optional. Hank.
She says this guy was murdered.
We need to speak to her.
What came up?
The generator. It's been giving her fits.
What does she do?
Well. she pretty much keeps everyone
in the Silo alive.
[mechanical whirring. scraping]
[shouting] That's her.
- [shouting] What's her name?
- What?
[shouting] What's her name?
Juliette. Juliette Nichols.
[Marnes] What happened
between you and her?
For two years. you were dead inside.
Then you met Juliette Nichols.
- I finally started listening is all.
- To what?
To Allison.
To what she was trying to tell me.
I'm not gonna tell you what that was.
All you need to know is.
I'm gonna go find her.
You want to find her?
She's right there.
I'm sorry.
As much as I love you. you old bastard.
I love Allison more.
If that really is her out there or not.
either way. I'm done.
I've gotta know the truth.